csv2html
========

This command line utility and its reusable Python module convert [CSV files](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) into HTML tables or complete HTML documents. They can use either the old school `HTMLgen` module or the more modern `html` module (both for Python 2.x). The later (available from <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/html> or through `pip install html`) is preferred since it can be used to generate valid HTML 4.01 Strict output. By default csv2html takes the first row of the CSV file as the [header](http://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_th.asp) of the HTML table.

**Note:** for the sake of compatibility with the current defaults of LibreOffice Calc csv2html assumes the field delimiter to be `;` unless you specify otherwise; use the option `-d ,` for most files generated by Microsoft Excel and others.

Command line arguments
----------------------
    usage: csv2html.py [-h] [-o output] [-t TITLE] [-d DELIM] [-s N] [-r] [-n]
                       [-c] [-g]
                       input

    Converts CSV files into HTML tables

    positional arguments:
      input                 input file

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -o output, --output output
                            output file
      -t TITLE, --title TITLE
                            document & table title
      -d DELIM, --delimiter DELIM
                            field delimiter for CSV (";" by default)
      -s N, --start N       skip the first N-1 rows, start with row N
      -r, --renumber        replace the first column with row numbers
      -n, --no-header       do not use the first row of the input as the header
      -c, --complete-document
                            output a complete HTML document instead of only the
                            table
      -g, --force-htmlgen   uses HTMLgen even if the html module is available

Use examples
------------

This takes comma-delimited data from AssetsImportCompleteSample.csv and outputs the corresonding HTML table to test.html:

    ./csv2html.py -o test.html -d , AssetsImportCompleteSample.csv

The example below takes the data from pub.csv, starting with row 267. The first column of the table is replaced with row numbers starting at 1 (except in the header row, which remains untouched in the output). The output is redirected to the file pub.html.

    ./csv2html.py pub.csv -r -s 267 > pub.html
    
Same as above but this time (due to the option `-c`) the output is a full HTML document instead of just the markup for the table. The option `-g` forces csv2html to produce its HTML output using HTMLgen. The output is then fed to [HTML Tidy](http://tidy.sourceforge.net) (which helps with HTMLgen's upper-case tags) and saved to pub.html.
    
    ./csv2html.py pub.csv -r -s 267 -c -g | tidy -q > pub.html    

